Hello everyone welcome to another episode of the One Bedrooms.
This is the first 16 we need to go back and watch the links in the description.
Alright so we have moved over into the next phase of this project and this video will be
that first video of detailing where we will start to add dimensions and text and annotations
and stuff like that.
So I hope you have the time so stick around and I think you will learn a lot.
So yeah let's jump into it.
Zinn.
Alright so what we're going to do is to add window tags and door tags to this drawing.
So far you can see that I've added some dimensions and of course I know you know how
to do this already.
If you have watched my one click dimensions video we got all of these dimensions which
just a couple clicks so these are like easy pickings now and we added some room tags as you
can see these were taken from the spaces that we had done in the project from earlier
on.
Of course I did turn a layer off so I'm not sure what I'm talking about so if I turn this
on you remember that space looking thing that's where these tags come from.
Alright so you definitely want to tag.
Definitely want to tag your spaces with their names of the rooms and then turn it off.
So of course we can move these in where we want and then we're going to just add some tags
to these windows and the doors and also create a schedule for these.
If you notice we're not seeing three of our windows and if you have been following the
episodes coming up you would know how to fix this by clicking on that little guide down
here and raising the cut plane from three to four feet six inches so that we can see
the windows.
Alright good so now we can go ahead and tag.
We're going to start with doors so let's go over to annotate and we're going to click on
door tag.
So this is the room tag tool that I use to tag the rooms so of course you can go ahead
and do that.
We're going to do some door tags now so once you click on it all you need to do is select
the door that you want to tag.
So we're going to do the first door here and it gives you a little graphic there to
illustrate what it would look like.
You're going to place it where you want it now so I'm going to place it like right here.
Then it brings this dialog box up where we can enter information about this door so
we can enter like framing material, glazing, head to detail, blah blah blah blah.
Remove that.
I did enter that early but I don't want it to be here anymore.
Alright so these are things you can enter into the door so this would be door one.
Hit okay and it leaves the tag there.
We're going to do the second door which would be this one.
We're going to hit and it brings it up.
Remove that.
Hit okay.
So we have door number two and this would be door number three.
Of course you can enter your numbers manually by clicking here and just typing in the
number that would be reflected outside.
We're going to hit okay.
Alright guys so that's all the doors we have no bearing mind that if we have
two or more doors that are the same exact size style then you would want to give those
two doors are three doors the same number okay so if this door and this door were the same
then they both would be saying zero one.
But because this is an exterior door this is an interior door there are two different doors
even though they are the same size.
Alright so two different doors you have to give them two different numbers.
This one is obviously smaller so that would definitely need us and a different number.
And the same thing applies when we move to windows.
These four windows at the front of the building are the exact same size, same style, same
material, same everything.
So we want to make sure that all of these windows have the same number likewise with
two kitchen windows these are the same so we're going to give those the same number.
This window is obviously different so that's going to have its own number.
So let's click on window tag.
I'm going to do like this boom.
Click on that.
Now we're going to drop the tag somewhere where there is a little bit of space so I'm
going to drop it right there.
So that would be number one and I'm not going to add anything in there I'm going to
leave it blank for now.
I'm not going to be adding anything in that I'm just you can go ahead and add these
information.
The good thing is when you add stuff in here you can pull these out in a schedule.
That is what this is for.
So of course if you're doing like a commercial building and you need to put in fire, fire
proof rating and that kind of stuff you're going to need to enter those information into
the door or the window.
All right.
So this would be our window one of course again.
This would also be another window one.
Good.
This would be a normal one as well.
Now if you sit in number changing guys, go click in there and type in the right number.
All right.
I'm going to this one should be a tool.
Good.
This one should be a tool as well.
Awesome.
Now this one should be a three.
Beautiful.
So now we have all of our window tags and door tags added.
I guess what the floor plan is basically done.
I don't need anything else for the floor plan.
It's all done guys.
I'm just going to need this a little bit more.
And see this is kind of touching the building.
I don't like that.
So I'm going to click on this.
Here I can edit.
That's good.
All right.
So that's how the floor plan would look.
And then we are going to, what if I can pull this out somewhere?
Let me see.
Beautiful.
Nice.
All right.
So the next thing we're going to do is we're going to create some schedule.
So go to door schedule, which is one of them going to do first.
Door schedule click on that.
And it says here, select the objects are enter to schedule external drawing.
So of course this we know that this is an external drawing because it's an X reference.
So we're going to hit enter.
And then it says no, please search schedule.
So you need to click your first corner and your second corner.
And if you notice here is our schedule.
I like to scale it to 50.
Let's move it over a little bit.
All right.
So we can actually go in and remove some of these that we are seeing here.
Honestly, what I don't would I have never used half of this stuff in here.
So we're definitely going to can remove some of these.
I'm not sure if I'm going to be doing that in this video.
But so here we have this schedule.
Nothing is in there because we need to add the drawing
that we want to pop up in this schedule.
So we're going to hit add.
And then we're going to select the drawing that we want.
So this would be that drawing and we're going to hit enter.
And then no, we can see our door is popping up.
We have the mark which is 1, 2, 3.
With height thickness.
If we had placed a material in there, it would be there.
If we had enter any of those other information, then it would pop up inside of here.
And of course, if you want to remove stuff, you can go to the edit style here.
And just click on this check out the column you want.
And just delete it.
All right.
Just go ahead and delete stuff.
Make sure you don't delete stuff you need.
All right.
We're going to hit.
Okay.
Let's do a window schedule now.
We're just going to hit enter.
We're going to draw a hot table.
Scale it to 50.
Then we're going to add this kind there.
So now this one's a little bit more interesting because we have a variety and we have some
duplicates.
We have four different four of the same windows.
We have two of this type of window.
And we have one of this type of window.
And so if you notice it itemizes every single window, what if we want a group them
up though?
What if we could have a column that says quantity three, we would be four of these
two of these and one of that.
That's exactly what we're going to do by just going back to edit style and check this
little box here.
That says include quantity column.
We're going to hit okay.
And no, we have a column that says quantity.
And then it kind of group them up to say, all right.
We have four of this one.
We have the same size.
We have two of this one.
The same size and we have one of this window.
So that's how you would go about doing that.
And of course I'm going to kind of put these side by side.
So that I can create my views.
All right.
Now we're going to create some views.
So go to view and we're going to say new.
I'm going to call this.
This is where plan.
Create a window.
I'll know how to do this already, right?
Yep.
You should know from the previous episode.
I just about that.
Probably should have given it a little bit more space.
I'll let it go.
Let me give it some space at the bottom.
Good.
Okay.
So we'll have a view there.
And then we're going to do one for the schedule at the same scale.
Okay.
Make sure that scale is one and a quarter.
Now we're going to call this.
Um, the fact that probably should do them both separate.
So I'm going to do a door schedule.
Pick.
I do a schedule is going to be from that to that.
Hit enter.
And then I'm going to do another one.
New.
No, schedule.
Enter.
All right.
So we have created three views here.
What will happen is that it will pop up underneath.
Or floor plan drawing.
We have doors schedule windows schedule and your floor plan right there.
All right.
So these are what we're going to be using on our sheets.
When we start to create sheets.
One of the things I want to do last is to add the title to this drawing.
So I'm going to go ahead and add a title with the circle.
And if you notice once I click on it, this box pops up.
Then we can go ahead and draw or title right here.
Title comes in with your name and your scale.
Once you put it on a sheet, that will become populated.
All right.
All right.
All right.
So this is where we're going to stop with the floor plan.
I believe we have enough information here to be submitted to the authorities for approval.
Especially for a small building like this.
We really don't need anything more than this.
But of course, if you're going to do something much larger than you need to add additional details
as necessary.
But this is where I'm going to stop for this floor plan.
And what we're going to do is to move over into the foundation plan, which will be
the last thing we're going to do in this episode.
All right.
So let's go over to our views.
Go down to our foundation plan.
And of course, this was where we left off with the foundation plan view.
First thing we're going to do is to change our scale.
All of us remember that before you add any type of annotations to your drawing.
Set your scale.
Then we're going to go ahead and bring in our grid lines.
So let's go to our construct right click Xref overlay.
All right. So we have our grid lines here looking beautiful.
I am not going to be using these dimensions.
So I need to freeze those guys.
All right. There we go.
And of course, what we're going to do is to add dimensions to the footing of the foundation.
All right. We're not going to do the walls.
Since we have already done them over here.
So let's go ahead and create the the dimension that you need.
So of course, we're going to be using exterior.
We're going to click on this footing here, enter drag it out and click.
If you notice, it's not yet configured.
And this is one of the problems that we could actually solve
by creating a template at the beginning of the project.
When you load your template into the project, it has all the settings and everything pre-loaded.
So that when you start to add things like text and dimensions,
everything will be there from day one.
All right. But I'm going to do a video and show you how to create templates.
So the more yourself, we're just using the default AutoCut template on this drawing.
All right. So let's go ahead and configure this dimension here.
What's it? It's style. I need about two chains.
And of course, on the first chain, I don't want to see
while over on and
while in the section. I don't want to see anything else.
So get rid of everything else.
I'm on chain two. I only want to see the overall of the white itself.
Now we could actually go ahead and add a grid on to like a third chain.
And show the grid's on there.
Like chain three and add grids.
But for some reason it's not working properly for me.
So I just usually add a different dimension string
separate from this one to the grid lines.
All right. So we're going to hit OK.
And oh, something I didn't change, which would have been the distance here,
which would 12 inches. All right. So it's going to look something like this.
I think that distance. I'm going to work with that distance because I do have another one to add
above it for the grid lines themselves. So of course, we're going to go ahead and just click on this one
and say add selected and do all the other walls or rather footing.
By the way, your footing is considered a wall object in AutoCAD.
Some reason. Why? If you notice when you went into the edit style dimension,
we had to make changes to walls for it to be reflected out here.
So AutoCAD is picking up your footing as a wall.
All right. So that's what was what we did there. Now, if you notice for this small project,
we practically have all the dimensions. We need except for one particular wall, which would
be this little wall in here. There's nothing telling us where this is located.
So that would be the only thing that we need really. So we would use an internal
dimension. But instead of going in an editing, we're going to just do pick points.
Since it's just a small area, I'm going to pick these points that we need.
Enter. We're going to drag it out. I'm going to place it right over this side.
All right. So there we have for that wall is being located. I'm going to actually add extra
extension line to this point and hit enter. And I'm going to add it to this dimension line.
All right. So that would be all the internal dimensions. We need. There's another issue right here.
Where this is not capturing the width of this wall are this footing here. So what I'm going to do
again is to click on this guy and say add object and select this footing and hit enter.
There we have it being added into that string right here. So far so good. I think it's a little
bit too close to the building. I could just add the grid line is kind of short.
I'm not sure if we're going to have enough space left to add stuff. We'll see.
One of the things I'm seeing here is that these dimensions stop on the grid line, which is
on the center of the walls. And for some reason I am not able to get these dimensions to go to
the edge of the wall. So that is something we would have to do manually. So what I would do is to go
here and say I would say add extension line and pick the two points.
Hit enter. I'm going to add it to the first string. I'm going to do the same thing again.
Add it to the second one and then remove these inner pieces.
It looks like a lot of work but it's definitely less work than using the regular
dimension tool and trying to add them one by one. Because right now I can move all of this at once.
All right. So this is what I'll be doing for all the X-T already mentions. So I'm going to kind of
speed this up at this point.
All right. So that's where I would stop with that. So we do have all the width of each footing
right where it needs to be. Everything looking fine. And then of course if you had a larger building
you would have a lot more internal interior dimensions. But since this is just so small let's all
with it we need there because everything else can be found on the X-T-Rour dimensions. All right.
What we need to bring in now are the room labels. All right. The name of each room. What we're going
to have to do because we didn't provide space objects in the foundation drawing. We will have to
X-RF overlay the floor plan. Back to our construct. Go to our ground floor. X-RF overlay
and we're going to use these spaces to get the names of the room. So let's go to annotate room tags.
Tag select the space and add the room names. All right. So now that we have the room name
what we will have to do is to freeze all layers on this external reference. All right. So if you go
into your layer or let me bring on my layer properties tab here. You'll see that we have all these
right here from this going all the way down to here. Can we do all of them at once? I think we can.
All of these ground floor construct layers. We're going to freeze them. All right. Freeze them all.
So I don't want to see them. All right. So that's how that should look. The last thing I'm
going to add is some collotes for each type of column. I'm going to have a collote. So let's go back
to annotate. We're going to say collote. I'm using a circle one and let's see. I'm going to do this
I stiffen a column and then I'm going to put a collote for this one. I'm about here enter. And for
these collotes we're going to be using just collotes only because we have created details in the last
episode for these already. So we're just going to say collote only. Afterwards, when we add these
to the sheets, we will have to fill in the fields here for this drawing. All right. So let's go ahead and add
another one. Let's do the T stiffen. Let's do this one right here.
I use the F8 button to turn on and off the R-thomode. So that's the shortcut to do that.
All right. So we have a T. We have an I. We need an L. So let's use this L over here.
Let's stop out there.
Collote only. And last one would be the square column. If you remember from the last episode,
that's these were the four columns we did drop that right here.
Collote only. At least one is kind of too close. Let me kind of see if I can hold it and down a little bit
by dragging this.
Yeah. Kind of bend this. Yeah. All right. So this is what our foundation plan would look like.
There should be enough information to get us through the gate. The only thing that's missing
would be the dimensions for the grid lines. I'm going to use the Nt red dimension as well
to get this since I just need one chain. I'm going to pick points. I'm just wondering if I could
add them to the top of this. It does really matter where you add them and it's just
fact that they need to be there. So I'm going to just add them out there.
Again, pick points.
Make sure you're picking that midpoint of the circle. I did all there.
And I don't think you need it on more than two sides. So I think that will do for the foundation
plan. The last thing we're going to do is to create a view, which is what you do after every detail
after you do your detail for a plan. So we're going to create a new view. I'm going to call this
the foundation plan. We're going to see if you're not. We're going to define our window.
We want our window to be something about here. Always leave some space at the bottom for your
title. And we're going to hit enter and everything looks good. We hit okay.
We're going to go back to annotate. I'm going to see title with the bubble on it.
We're going to annotate the right here.
So that would be the title for the foundation plan. I noticed that the scale is
left off. I'm not sure why. But I'm not even going to worry about that right now.
So everything looks good and that would be it for the foundation plan. All right. So that is where we're going
to stop for this episode. Thank you for watching. If you haven't already, subscribe, hit the like
button and share this video. If you think you got something valuable out of it, why me a ton?
All right everybody. That's it for this video today. Thank you for joining. I hope that you
learned something. And if you did, you know what to do already. Hit the like button and subscribe
if you haven't already too. And definitely hit the share button and tell your friend
for telling another friend. Be up to my patrons over on my page on page. If you didn't know,
now you know the links are in the description. I do have some stuff over there. You can check out
download. Get access to stuff that I do not share on this page. All right. So thank you again for
watching. See you guys in the next video.