Hello everybody, welcome to another episode on the one bedroom house series.
And today what we're going to do is to continue where we left off on the drainage and electrical
plan.
We're going to be adding annotations and some details to fleshy-tot, make it ready for print
and set off.
See me as a...
In the meantime, if it's your first time on the channel, be sure to hit the subscribe button
share, drop a comment, especially if you learned something new.
And I can almost bet just almost.
Let's do it.
Alright guys, so here we are back in Atacad Architecture.
And today we're going to be looking at the drainage and electrical plan.
So of course, as you already know, we're going to be adding some annotations and some notes
to this drawing to make it sheet ready.
So to speak, and as you can see here, we have both drainage and electrical showing on this
drawing.
Now, there will be instances where you might want to separate these two drawings, especially
if they are very complex and detailed.
So you know, bear that in mind.
In this case, of course, this is just a simple drawing.
Not a lot of components, not a lot of fixtures.
So we're going to be adding them both on this one view or this one drawing.
So as you can see, we have brought in all our constructs that we need.
Let me go to our extra friends panel.
As you can see, we have our drainage layer there.
We have the electrical layer of fixtures and the ground floor drawing itself.
And if you're not seeing one or the other, you can go to the view step, right click on
that view, go to properties, go to content and go ahead and check all the ones that you
want to see.
Of course, I don't want to see structural in this view.
So I did not select that.
Alright, so I'm going to minimize this.
Of course, we are seeing some stuff that we don't want to be seeing in this view.
So we're going to be freezing some layers.
But before we do that, let's go ahead and tag our rooms.
Because eventually, we're going to need to freeze the space layer as well.
But before we freeze it, we want to tag the rooms.
So go ahead and tag your rooms.
Guys, you already know how to do this.
So I'm going to just do one and then just like that, a little bit of video magic tricks.
All of them is done.
Go ahead, tag your rooms.
And from there, we can go ahead and freeze the layers that we don't need.
So of course, I don't want to see the roof.
I don't want to see space.
I don't want to see these guys here.
And I definitely don't want to see that.
I'm going to just keep the main things that I need such as the fixtures.
Because we do need to know where the kitchen sink is.
We do need to know where the toilet and the drains are.
Alright, I'm going to freeze this one as well.
And then we keep everything else.
And then from here, we can go ahead and kind of move these around so that they're not blocking
anything that is important, such as the light or electrical fixtures there.
Alright, so make sure that you get that adjusted.
I think I'm going to move this down a little bit like probably about here.
Alright, so from here, what we're going to do is to go ahead and add some annotations to our drainage
system.
Alright, so what we're going to do here is to go ahead and go to our text.
And we're going to type m.h.1.
mh as we all know stands for manhole.
And we give it a number, a unique number at the end there so that we can identify which
manhole this is referring to.
Alright, because of course, we have multiple manholes.
And so giving them a unique number or name will help to identify them individually.
Alright, so what I did there was to just copy that one, give it a new number.
We're going to copy it again.
And I'm going to give it a new number.
And if you notice how I am numbering them in a chronological order or in a sequential order,
at the closest end to the host, we start at one and then at the furthest end with the
larger number.
Alright, so you kind of want to keep it a little bit organized.
You wouldn't want to put one up here and then two, don't here and then three, you know,
you kind of confuse the thing like that.
So we're going to leave it at that.
Alright, so let's name these are the guys here.
Of course, well, already know what these are.
Trap, goly basin.
So T g.
B.
And we don't have to give these a number because of course, this is just one here.
If I had more than one than I would give it a number, but in this case, we only have one.
So and this would be grease, trap basin.
Alright, good.
So we have those labeled and that's that.
Then we're going to go ahead and label our pipes.
Alright, so what we need to label on here would be the size and the material.
Okay, so for this project we're using PVC pipes, I want to make sure that you put the
correct size on here.
So we're going to use a leader.
So let's go to multi leader here and we're going to click on this first one right here
and drag it out.
Now if you notice when you move it out, you get the arrow.
If you put it too close, you're not going to get the arrow and you always want to have
the arrow.
So pull it out enough so that you can see the arrow and then click.
And then we're going to go ahead and type 4 inch PVC.
Actually, I want to put the millimeters here as well, which would be 100 millimeters.
And what we want to also do is to put the diameter symbol here, because this is a circular
pipe.
So we're going to put the diameter symbol, which would be the shortcut would be percentage
percentage C as in cat.
So that's how we want to have that.
And then guess what, we could just copy this and paste it under other areas that we need
it.
So we need one here, we need one here.
We're going to need one down here as well.
And we're going to move the arrows so that they can point in the correct direction.
So let's do that with these.
I'm going to do actually, you know what, let me delete these.
I'm going to copy this one and paste it here and here.
And then for this one, I'm going to point it in this direction, point it here.
As well, I need another arrow from this to point to this pipe right here.
So what I'm going to do is to highlight that, go to the leader drop don and say add leader.
All right, so once we click on that, we know how the ability to add another leader.
And if we want, we could actually add another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one another one
So guess what, we also have some two inch ones and these are some smaller PVC pipes that are running from the laboratory to the bathroom drain here floor drain.
So this would be two inches enough course if four equal 100 and two would equal the what.
Almost 150 that's how I know you're some brilliant dudes and girls. All right, so that's gonna be that and then I'm gonna copy this again and put it in the kitchen because we have another two inch pipe inside of here.
So as you can see we're just going around and labeling each pipe making sure that they have the correct information on them.
All right, I also want to label.
This little thing right here, so this would be a four inch equally the PVC under PVC,
Don't spout our don't pipe whichever you want to use. So this would be the don't spout from the roof gotter and then it would go into this PVC pipe all the way to the river at the back of this property.
All right, so that's it for the drainage plan. I just have too little additional notes that I would add text.
Let's add it right here. I'm gonna storm water line two.
Reverse at the back of property. All right, so I would put this here.
But if you notice the line the pipe is running through the text and I kind of want to block that out.
So what I would do is to just highlight everything go to mask and choose background and of course I'm
going to be using the drawing background. That's all you need to do and he'd okay. And so that will get
rid of the line in the background there. And of course I'm going to copy this text now and I'm going to paste it down here.
And I'm going to write something similar except that it's going to be more along the lines of sewer line to main
community sewer system. Something like that. Yeah, of course you might be able to work it a little bit
around that, but essentially what we're going to do when we create our view is to cut off.
We're going to cut the drawing about here because we don't want to see this part of the drainage system.
And we don't want to see that little back part. I can stay. Those areas will be seen on the site plan.
All right. So you don't have to worry about that. All right. So that would be it for the drainage plan.
No, we would go over to the electrical plan. And guys, we are like 95% done already. Because there's nothing
really to be done with the electrical plan. All we need really is a legend to show all the symbols and
what they represent. And if you remember it when we were doing the electrical plan, we had already done
our legend. All right. So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to open that legend up. So this is the
legend that I have created from the time we had done the electrical plan. All right. Now I have this
legend available on my Patreon page guide. So if you need to download it definitely go over there.
The AutoCAD file is there. But I also have the PDF file linked in the description below if you need
something to reference for your project. All right. Now the good thing about having your legends in
in a separate drawing is that we can link this drawing to all of our projects. All right. So
what we're going to do here is to make this drawing a part of our current project. And how we're
going to do that is we're going to go to our construct and we're going to make it an element. All right.
So we're going to just right click and we're going to save current drawing as an element. So we go ahead
and I'm going to rename this to say electrical and drainage legend. Okay. And if you notice,
I renamed it because I want to add a couple others to stuff inside of here. What I'm going to do is
to probably just copy one of these. By the way, guys, this legend I made from scratch. So this is
something you will have to spend time on. Do there are some tools out there that we can use to
create legends. But I do not have access to those. So you will have to go ahead and figure that out.
Definitely go ahead and do the same. So I'm going to rename this to be drainage legend.
All right. So basically what I'm going to do is to just have, we're going to be copying
these down one, two, three. And I'm going to be having the abbreviations here. So I'm going to have
m, h. I'm also going to have shrub, golly, piece. I'm going to have piece shrub piece. And I'm
going to give the descriptions here. All right. So I'm going to go ahead and finish this legend here.
I'm going to copy this down like that. And then I'm going to get rid of this piece. All right. So
here I have created a little legend for the drainage system with all the different abbreviations
and what they mean. All right. So I'm going to go ahead and save. Now remember that this is
no drawing that is unique to our current project. So we're going to go back over to our drainage
electrical and now we're going to x-ref overly this into this project. So we're going to go x-ref overly.
And if you look closely, we can see that our legends are currently at the bottom here. And these are
very small because I did draw these at a 1 in 1 scale. So you have to be mindful of where these are
located because when you x-ref them into your project, if you had them out here, they will appear out
here. All right. I had mine in the corner here and I also drew them at a 1 in 1 scale, which is what they
are right here. When we put them on the sheet, they're going to come out at the perfect size.
So don't worry about the size. Just be mindful of what this scale is. All right. At this point,
I'm going to go ahead and create some additional notes that we could add to this drawing. All right.
So I'm going to put them probably over here. So go pick on the A. I'm going to draw a box.
And then I'm going to just copy some notes that I have when I'm just paste them in. All right. So these
are my notes for my electrical and drainage. I'm going to give them some numbers as well.
And of course these notes would vary depending on the project. I just literally just copy these from
another project and just paste them in here. So you're that in mind.
All right. So this would be the notes I have for my electrical and drainage. All right. So these are
done at a scale of quarter inch. You have to be your skills in mind. If you forgot what scale it was at,
you could actually go over to your properties here and look and where you see anitative skill. It is saying
this object was done at a quarter inch scale. Guys, this is important. All right. So now I have my
electrical notes. I have my plumbing notes. I have my legends and I have everything. Everything is done.
All I need to do is to go ahead and create some views. So we're going to go over to a views tab here.
We're going to go to new. First one we're going to create is our drainage and electrical
lay. All right. I'm going to hit define window and we're going to define our window to be about
from here all the way down to about here. Make sure that you're capturing all that you need. I'm going to hit
that. We're going to hit enter and everything else looks good. We're going to hit okay. So that's
done. We're going to create a view again. We're using the same scale here and we're going to call this
could call it notes define window. Going to be this. Enter. Okay. And then we're going to do our
legend which we're going to zoom in but remember now that this is at a one in one scale. So we do
have the change or scale down here to one in one before we create our view. So new view.
I'm going to do both legends separate. So we're going to say legend electric call define window.
This would be our electrical legend enter. Okay. They were going to do our drainage separate.
Define window and then we define our drainage legend enter. Okay. So now when we go to our view manager
we can see that we have all of our views here. And if you click on each you can see the preview
down here and that's very important because when we go to our view we can also see that we have them
listed over here as well. All right. And these are what we're going to be placing on our sheets. So
let me change back to the quarter inch scale. One last thing to top that off is to add or
title to this drawing. So we're going to go ahead and go to title. Okay. On that and of course
we're going to just draw our title down here just like that. All right. So let's move this up a little bit.
Yeah. So I'm going to add more of a good actually move the title down.
It does well.
Good. Of course it has the wrong scale and it's not on all why. But I'm not even going to worry about that.
Sometimes autocad have those glitches but we're going to leave that there. All right. So that's where
we're going to end this video for today. We're going to hit the save button and so we have everything
that we need for our drainage and electrical plants. All right. All right. So that is it for
this video today. I hope that you learned something and you know what to do already. Like and hit the
subscribe button and don't forget to share the video with your colleagues and your friends and your
enemies too. Yeah. Anyways I want to say a shout out to my patrons on my Patreon page. The link
is in the description below. Definitely check out my Patreon page and also check out my Instagram
page as well. And yeah until then see you guys in the next video.