Hello everyone, Edward here and welcome back to another video. Today I'm going to be showing you how to construct various types of roof in AutoCard architecture. And of course, if you know anything about roof, there are tons of different types or you could say styles of roof. And so just to list a few, these are what, you know, some of the typical ones you'll see out there. But we're going to take a look at Dutch hip, man'sard, Gambrill and perhaps a flat roof. Some of these are the ones we have covered in prior videos. So if you want to check those out, I'm going to drop the link, believe the like button. So yeah, go ahead and smash the like button. Without further ado, let's jump into it, shall we? So here I am in AutoCard architecture and what we're looking at here is a simple floor plan of a one-bedroom house. That I have featured on the channel before. I have a whole 24 episode series walking you through from start to finish of how to draw this exact building. So if you're interested in that, I'm a drop the playlist in the description of the video. However, this video is about roof and so let's jump into it. Yeah, so the first roof we want to look at is the Dutch hip roof. That's the most common name. But it is also known as the Dutch Gable or Bastan Gable. Some people call it Gable at roof, especially over in the UK region. However, this roof is a combination of a hip roof and a Gable roof together. And so the top of the roof is kind of caught short and you have a Gable situation happening at the top there. I don't know if there's a bit of way to explain it. But it does have some function to it. It gives a little buzz to your roof depending on the style that you're trying to go for. But it also offers the functionality of having windows in that space to have ventilation in the attic air of the roof. And so those are some of the reasons why folks may use this tap or roof over just a traditional hip roof. So with that said, let's jump into it. Alright, so the first thing we're going to do is to find the roof command, which is on your home tab. On the build panel, we click on the drop-run here and we have the roof tool. Now we're not going to be using the roof slab tool. I've gone into much more depth in prior videos. So I'm not going to be doing that today. But we're going to start with the roof tool here. So you click on that and of course the tool is ready to go. We have some properties that we can adjust. But we'll leave those for last. Why don't we start in this corner of the roof and we'll go over to the next corner. And typically you would go all around the perimeter of the building. In this situation, I just have a rectangular building. But if I had an odd shape building, I would want to make sure that I follow the shape of the building. So I'm going to click on my third corner here and immediately you can see that the hip roof is starting to form. And as soon as I click on my last point, I have a completed hip roof. And all I have to do here is to hit enter to finish the command. If you don't hit enter, you're going to lose it. Okay, so you got to do that. Immediately, if we go into 3D view here, you can see that we have a 3D mention all hip roof. And we can make further adjustments to this, such as, you know, we can click on it. We can change maybe the thickness of the roof. Before I do that, let me go into our front view here so you can see exactly what's happening. And I'll zoom into like right here. So if I change a thickness, it, you know, it changes the thickness there. I can change the edge caught to plumb. And that will affect the eve. And we can change overhang, which would be the distance from here to here. And a couple of other things, such as the slope, which is probably one of the most important parts. So we can type an angle in here, such as 30 degrees. If you use ratio, you can enter that as well. A measurement out of 12. So if it's a 7 inch out of 12 or something like that, you can enter your ratio in here as well. And then the plate height, of course, is a how far the roof sits from the ground level. In this instance, it's going to be 10 feet because the wall itself is 10 feet tall. Okay. So we want the roof to sit exactly on top of that wall. And so that's going to be your plate height. So once you have a hip roof, it's just a matter of creating that little gable at the end here and another one on this end. And to do that, what we need to do in AutoCAD is to create an additional face to this side and this side. And to do that, it's real simple. Yeah, because right now we have four faces on this roof. What we need to make this into a double slope and this into a double slope, meaning we need to add an extra face to this side and this side. So to do that, we would come to the roof contextual tab and we would click on edit edges. Once you do that, you want to pick the two sides that you want to work on. So in this case, it's going to be this side and then I'm going to come over and click on this side. You can see that they are highlighted. That's important. You want to make sure that you have the correct edges highlighted. Once that happens, you hit enter and this will take you into the roof edges and faces dialog. So in here, you can see that we have both of our edges and each of our edges only has one face. So as you can see, it has our 30 degrees, but we need to add a second face down here on each of our edges. So what I'm going to do here is to click on my first edge, I'll come down to faces and to add it one as simple click inside and the second one is added. Now I want to slope for this one to be 90 degrees and that is going to be able to give us the gap end that we are looking for. So if we type 90 degrees here, that's going to be the angle and we need to specify a distance here as well that is greater than what is at the top here. So this is in the negative, we don't care about that. We're going to make this three feet. All right. So at three feet height, we're going to have a 90 degree slope, which is going to go straight up in the ear and that's going to give us our gap. For the second one, we'll do the same thing. You notice that when you click on the second one here, it only has one face. So we need to click again to add a second face to our second edge. And once we do that, we're going to do the same thing. We put 90 degrees and we will add three feet in here as our height. And once you're done, that is it. Okay, you hit OK and look at that, we now have a Dutch hip roof. So if we click on the front view here, just rotate it and take a look at it, you can see where it comes up on a hip and then you have the cable right there. And if you remember that three feet that we entered, that distance is measuring from where the hip ends. So it comes here and ends here. The vertical height from here to the plate height, that's going to be three feet. Okay, so you can have a really small gap like this or if you wanted to have a larger gap, what if you wanted to have a larger gap? There are a couple of things you can do. All right, we can edit these edges again. So I'm going to click on this edge and this edge over here and I'm going to hit enter. And what we can do is to shorten this distance. Okay, so what if we made this 12 inches which is one foot, I'm going to do the same thing on the other side 12 inches which is one foot. We hit OK, you'll notice that it moves it back some and it is no much larger. Okay, and of course it shardens the hip on both sides. So if I go back to a front view here, you can see that what happened is it moves the entire cable and out towards the end of the building and also shardens this height and that's what we actually did was to enter a one foot height here instead of having a three foot height which would have landed us out here as we saw earlier. So depending on the style that you're going for, you can manipulate those numbers to get exactly what you need. But in general, this is how you go about adding Dutch hip roof in order to get architecture. Essentially what we have done is to add a second slope to both sides of this roof. Now what if you wanted to go back in and delete those edges and bring it back to square one. All we have to do is to click on the roof one more, go back to edit edges and we'll go back into both of the corner edges here and simply come down to the 90 degrees that we added and hit delete on the keyboard and that's gone. We'll do the same thing for the second edge and come down and we'll hit delete and just like that we would revert back to a simple hip roof. So if you're looking for a deeper dive into AutoCAD architecture without the distractions of YouTube, I have the perfect online course for you. So far everyone that takes it, enjoy it. You can read the comments for yourself or rather the reviews for yourself and so go ahead and check it on I'll drop the link in the description. But also if you are just starting out as an architectural drafter or you're looking to get into a job a career in this field, I have a perfect course for you as well that will take you from start to finish learning the very fundamental concepts all the way up to being able to draw something that employers or your recruiter can look at and say hey you know what you're doing. But I'm going to drop a link below for that as well I think it's going to be amazing if you are looking to get into this career. So check them out and of course if you're enjoying this video so far go ahead and smash the like button and let's move on to the next roof type. Now let's take a look at ManSarderoof and this type is also known as combination roof or French roof. Some people call it Kerbrew, I don't know what the right name is but I'm going to stick with ManSard for this video and typically the ManSarder roof would have a double slope or two pitch roof on all four sides. So initially we only had a double slope on this side and this side for the Dutch hip. In this situation we're going to have a double slope on all four sides and AutoCAD would have provided a much easier way for us to do this and so what we're going to do is to start off with a hip roof just like we have here and that's by default once you use the roof tool and of course you would adjust your dimensions at the top here and so on and so forth. We could go in and edit the edges one by one but AutoCAD would have given us a simpler route which would be to change your property here that would be the shape property from single slope to double slope and this would apply a double slope to all four faces of the roof so we're going to switch it over to that and below you'll notice that we have some additional properties that popped in and we're going to use them okay so you'll notice that we have a lower slope and then upper slope. Now with the man-saderoof usually the lower slope is much steeper. Often times close to vertical so the lower slope is often steep while the upper slope is often shallow so like a 30 degree, 22 degrees or something like that. So we're going to test it out and see how it works so for the lower slope we're going to make it perhaps like a 80 degrees or 75 let's do 75 degrees for this one. All right and for the upper slope we're going to leave it at 22 and a half I think I like that number there and let's go to a front view and see what we have. So right now you can see that we kind of have something going on here but I don't know if it is doing what it's supposed to do. I think what we need to do is to raise the height of the upper slope so the upper slope should be higher and so we need to raise this above the 10 foot height which is the plate height which would be the height of the wall right here. So why don't we raise this up to like I don't know 15 feet and there you have it this is how you would typically have a man-saderoof and of course some of the reasons people use this type of roof is to have additional space in the attic and sometimes an entire floor and a lot of times you'll also have like dormer windows popping out of the sides of these taps of roof which is something I'd like to cover on the channel shortly so maybe in the next video I'll talk about dormer roof and how you could have those popping out the front of this tap of roof and so on and so forth. But typically this is how the man-saderoof combination roof would look and how you would construct this in AutoCard architecture. So it's a matter of converting all four sides of a hip roof to have double slope and then you adjust those measurement down here making sure that the lower slope is steeper than the upper slope and also making sure that the upper slope has a higher height dimension versus the lower slope. Once you have that intact then you're all set you should not have any problem with this roof. So that is it for the man-saderoof. Why don't we go ahead and take a look at Gambrill. This one is also known as barn roof typically seen on barns if you have one of those in the country but in some regions they also call Dutch roof which is not to be confused with Dutch hip. So you do have Dutch hip which was the first one that we looked at but we also have Dutch roof which is just another name for Gambrill roof. So let's go back to our top view here and what I'll do is to convert this back to a single slope and get rid of that and I'll put a simple 30 degree angle here. So this would be your initial step right we have a simple hip roof what the first thing we're going to do is to convert this into a Gambrill roof and to do that it's very simple all we've got to do is to grab the handle right in the middle here move it out and click somewhere in the space out here and just like that we would have converted this side of the roof to a Gambrill roof and we would do the same on this side so I would click here move this out and click and just like that we have a Gambrill roof and so if I come into my 3D view you can see that we have a Gabriel roof all right the only thing that is left is for us to add an additional slope to this side as well as this side and that would pretty much give us the Gambrill roof you all know how to do this already so I think you should be able to take it from here but I'm going to show you nonetheless so what we're going to do is I'm going to go ahead and click on the roof and we're going to do edit edges here and we will pick both edges so we pick this one and this one and then we'll hit enter and from here we have both edges all we got to do is to add an additional face down here and specify what angle and height we want for that slope so for the first edge we're going to add another one here and typically your lower slope which would be the zero face this one is typically steeper again maybe a 75 degree or maybe not so much maybe 65 degrees and then your upper slope would be shallow so maybe a 30 degrees will work with that for this one and that would be it we would also change the height of the upper slope which is this one here and we could say alright let's make this I don't know three feet again I think that's a good number to work with and for the second one we will do the same thing we add another face and we come in we make the lower slope which would be the first one to be 65 degrees and then we change the height on this to be three feet as well and that's it so we have our first edge here and we have our second edge and they both have the same value of course we are trying to keep it symmetrical so you want to make sure that you add the same values in both edges don't here once that is done we're going to hit okay and just like that you'll see that we have multiple faces on either side of the roof and if you turn it around you'll see that this is what we have now for a roof of this type you'll notice that it is a thicker here and then it starts to get slim here and that's because of the edge that we're using typically we would use plum but for this scenario I would turn this to square just to keep everything consistent now if you want the wall to go up to meet the roof that's actually simple all you have to do is to select both walls or what if we want it to do this one as well select them all okay and then we would go to the roof floor line drop down here on the wall contextual tab and then we would modify roof line once you click on that we have a couple of options on the command line we would select auto project and then we select the roof as our boundary okay once we do that we hit enter and just like that all of those walls would be projected up to that roof and if we take a look at this in perhaps realistic this is what we have all right so that would be your barn roof not the prettiest thing for this particular house but just wanted to show you how to get this and make it happen so flat roof which is probably the simplest of them all is typically used in more modernistic designs and it's very easy to do because all you literally have to do is to put a zero degree angle and it makes the roof flat so what I'm going to do here is just delete this roof and I'm going to go ahead and reset these walls so to do that I'm going to come here go back to roof line and I'm going to just hit reset and boom we're back to square one so again to do a flat roof you can use the slab tool actually because typically your roof could be a slab as well but if you want to use the roof tool you could do that because you do get the option for overhang and all those properties if you want it to use those so you can simply draw a simple roof like that and then we can simply make this zero degrees and once you do that you have a flat roof yeah and then you can manipulate other things like the overhang what if we want a two foot overhang on all sides you enter that and that dimension would be updated if you wanted the thickness to be 12 inches you could do that as well and of course we would be able to see that from an elevation view just like that if you wanted no overhang you could enter zero that would just get rid of the overhang and know you have something like that perhaps you want I don't know perhaps you want your roof to come in a little bit so that you can have a parapet wall going up depending on how you construct these things but sometimes you can have the parapet wall built on top of the roof or you can have the parameter walls here extending up so if we were to click on these walls here on the outside I could just enter a higher value here perhaps 13 feet and no we have a parapet situation going on so if I come into realistic here or let's do conceptual you can see that we have you know we have a roof on a parapet a situation going on there and yeah that's how you could potentially do something like that and if we were to cut a section through this building okay you can see exactly what's happening the wall going straight up and then you have your roof component here and it's uh connect back over on this side so that's all I've got for you today I do hope that you learned something new and if you'd like to learn how to draw the barrel vaulted roof in order to cut a architecture I'm going to drop the link right here and maybe you want to check out something else that YouTube recommends for you that video is going to be right here as well also shout out to all patrons uh YouTube members thank you all for your support and yeah I like doing videos like this so look forward for some other ones coming up shortly see you next time